# Introduction

The SMA Resource Monitor (SMA_RM) allows for monitoring of system resources and generation of OpCon events and/or local processing actions as a resource is determined to have gone into or out of alarm per user-defined conditions. A log file is also kept in which data for monitored resources can be logged with each scanning cycle or as the determined alarm/normal status changes. Events sent to SAM and local processing actions initiated as a result of monitored conditions may also be logged. The log file is stored in the LSAM's log directory within sub-directory 'SMA_RM/', e.g., in "/usr/local/lsam/log/3100/SMA_RM/". The log file is named "yyyymmdd.log", where 'yyyymmdd' is the 4-digit year, 2-digit month, and 2-digit day-of-month of the current date, e.g., "20161005.log". At the beginning of every new day (if SMA_RM is in operation), the current log file will be closed and a new one, bearing the filename for the new date, will be opened. If a log file for the current day already exists when SMA_RM begins operation, data will be appended to it. To keep disk usage by log files from becoming excessive, old log files can be deleted via the LSAM utility 'maintain_ofiles' (refer to [maintain_ofiles](/operations/utilities/maintain-ofiles)).

The two built-in monitoring capabilities of SMA_RM are disk space monitoring and process monitoring. SMA_RM also includes "user-defined monitors", a flexible mechanism for users to define additional resources to be monitored, from the number of files within some directory, to the number of records in some database, to the number of logged-in users. For disks and processes, specified boundary values can be either a maximum, which is the default and indicates that the scanned value represents an alarm condition if it meets or exceeds the boundary value, or the specified boundary value may be a minimum, which means that an alarm condition exists if the scanned value is not greater than the boundary value. For user-defined monitors, the boundary values and comparison operator with the scanned value is internal to the user-defined monitor and not directly-addressable within SMA_RM.

SMA_RM will automatically be started at LSAM-startup if an SMA_RM configuration file is detected. It is named "SMA_RM.conf" and is in the LSAM's configuration directory (same directory as the LSAM configuration file "lsam.conf"). Once SMA_RM has begun execution, users may make changes on-the-fly by simply updating the configuration file, and they will be incorporated at its next scheduled scan cycle. (If something external to SMA_RM needs changing to enable SMA_RM to execute properly, e.g., permissions on a user-defined start image changed to allow it to be executed, then SMA_RM can be prompted to re-try the existing Config File by 'touching' it.) At LSAM start-up, all resources are assumed to be in the normal state, and if not, this will be detected in the minimum number of scans required to detect a normal-to-alarm transition. SMA_RM allows monitoring to occur within daily time windows, e.g., from 0800-1800. SMA_RM also allows for definition of "exclusive" windows, e.g., monitoring is to occur while not in the period 0800-1800 (i.e., monitor from midnight to 0759 and from 1801 to midnight). Differing windows can be applied to the monitoring of individual resources.

The minimum, and default, scan interval will be one second, and can be widened in increments of one second. When an alarm/normal transition occurs, user-defined events can be sent to SAM, e.g., ```"$CONSOLE:DISPLAY,<DISK [/usr] IS 80% FULL!>"```. It should be noted that the 1-second timer is an interval time, not an alarm timer. That is, once processing for the current scan cycle is completed, SMA_RM will sleep for the specified number of between-scan seconds before starting the next scan cycle. Also, processing time required to complete a scan cycle is not considered. It is thus quite conceivable that on a one-second scan cycle, less scans than the number of elapsed seconds will occur from time A to time B.

Disk monitoring is based on use of the standard UNIX 'df' command, and is either performed on all disks which appear in its output or on a user-specified set of disks. Users may specify disks by either their name or their mount-point on the system, e.g., name = "/dev/disk/c0s30t1", mount-point = "/usr". Users must also specify the percent used which constitutes an alarm condition for the specified disk(s). Within events to be sent to SAM, users can use event variables for the disk's name, mount-point, and percent used, and SMA_RM will replace the event variables with the scanned data.

Process monitoring uses output from the standard UNIX 'ps' command, and capabilities include simple checking for existence or non-existence of processes as well as checking for processes which are using an inordinate amount of CPU time (i.e., they are CPU-hogs). Alarm conditions can also be defined for exceeding a total number of processes on the system as well as for exceeding a percentage (in increments of 10 percent) of the total processes on the system which are CPU-hogs. Users may also specify that certain processes be ignored except in determining the total number of processes on the system. Processes can be identified, with use of limited wildcards, by process name and/or UID. Process-specific event variables are available for use in events to be sent to SAM.

User-defined monitors are user-written scripts or programs to be invoked by SMA_RM during each scan cycle to do whatever is required to effect one scan of some resource and to return the normal/alarm status of the resource along with zero or more values which may be logged in the SMA_RM log file. Formatting requirements will be explained later in section "The ```<user_defined>``` Section". Data gathered by the script/program can be included via event variables in events to be sent to SAM.